= has_slug
== Deliciously slugalizing ActiveRecord & your ActionControllers since Rails 2.2

http://www.github.com/Nielsomat/has_slug

	./script/plugin install git://github.com/Nielsomat/has_slug.git
	or git submodule add git://github.com/Nielsomat/has_slug.git vendor/plugins/has_slug

has_slug provides an easy way to equip your models with "permalinks" like so:

	class BlogPost < ActiveRecord::Base
	  has_slug(:category, :title)
	end

	post = BlogPost.create(:category => "Time Travelling", :title => "Yatta!")
	# => #<BlogPost id: 1, category: "Time Travelling", title: "Yatta!">
	post.to_param
	# => "1-time-travelling-yatta"

That's nice. But surely not revolutionary.

So let's turn our attention to the controller which should of course be able to find the record
identified by the above "permalink". Turns out that Rails kinda does this by default by virtue of
calling to_i on params[:id] when passing it to ActiveRecord. Easy enough..

But wait, there's more!

Of course this automatic conversion means that your carefully worded "2-honey-you-look-great-in-that-dress"
could also be accessed under "2-youre-way-too-fat-for-that-dress-honey". Not so good. In fact, just
anything matching /^2[\W$]/ would lead to BlogPost.find(2). Besides upsetting your wife and/or
mistress, this might obvisouly also annoy search engines which have a fetish for unique resource
itentifiers (i.e. URIs).

But fear not for it has all been taken care of for you!

	class BlogPostsController < ApplicationController
	  rescue_from SlugMismatchError { |item| redirect_to(blog_post_url(item), :status => :moved_permanently) }

	  def show
	    check_slug!(@post = BlogPost.find(params[:id]), params[:id])
	  end
	end

And behold: <tt>GET /blog_posts/2-honey-you-look-great-in-that-dress</tt> will render <tt>/blog_posts/show.hmtl.erb</tt>
while <tt>GET /blog_posts/2-youre-way-too-fat-for-that-dress-honey</tt> will <tt>302</tt> to
<tt>/blog_posts/2-why-i-love-my-wife</tt>.

Even better though, the above example actually still works when written like this:

	class BlogPostsController < ApplicationController
	  def show
	    check_slug!(@post = BlogPost.find(params[:id]))
	  end
	end

Because awesomely enough, the second parameter to check_slug! defaults to params[:id] and by
default, all ApplicationController descendants are lovingly wired to rescue you from SlugMismatchErrors
by redirecting to model_url(model).

So what are you waiting for? Just +has_slug+ your models and consider your application awesomified!


Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Niels Ganser, released under the MIT license. Even though this software is released
"as is", I accept full responsibility for any bone fractures that might directly result from using it.
So in the case of such spontaneous fracturing, feel free contact my armada of lawyers to discuss your
ridiculously high compensation claims.


Feel free to send pull requests for found bugs or feature suggestions via Github or just drop me a line via email (niels herimedia com).


Shout-out to Christoffer Sawicki & Henrik Nyh for creating Slugalizer, upon which this plugin was
originally based (obsolete since Rails 2.2)!
